# SideSteppingPlayMate
Our design, the Sidestepping Playmate, is an Arduino-powered cat toy which consists of a small, flat, electric body which moves back and forth on wheels. The items on it which the cat interacts with are a feather attached to the top of a pole, and a mouse toy clipped onto the back of the toy. Using different modes and features, this reinvented RC car will allow cat owners to idly leave the toy on or control the movement of the toy to play with their pets.
Using servo motors, the wand with feathers hanging off of the top of the toy rotates or spins on its own periodically when a specific mode is activated by the owner using a remote. This is the “Feather Spin” mode. If the motion-detecting PIR sensors pick up that the cat tries to swipe towards it, the wandwill quickly rotate in the opposite direction if the PIR sensor does not already see an obstacle there. Please refer to Figure 1 to see a visual of this detailed aspect. The aim is that the cat will get a tailored response when it attempts to catch the “prey”, making it more of a challenge and more interactive. 
The entire toy also moves autonomously when set to a certain mode,”Obstacle Avoidance”, with a toy mouse following its every movement in close tow. Instead of being dragged on the ground and getting tangled, the mouse is clipped onto a coiled plastic wire and swings from the back of the toy from the momentum of the toy moving around. Please refer to Figure 1 to see a visual of this aspect. If the cat wishes to grab onto the mouse, the base of the wire is connected to a spring so that there’s resistance and the mouse will “spring back” to the toy if the cat does not try hard enough to keep it in its grasp. This mode is meant to be safe by maintaining it distance from the cat using an ultrasonic sensor and avoid hitting other obstacles by turning when an obstacle is in front of it.
Of course, if an owner would like to get involved in their cat’s fun, they always could use the bluetooth remote control. Once they switch the mode from autonomous to user-controlled, they can tease their cats with the prospect of a quick game of chase, or taunt them by keeping the feathers just out of their reach. The bluetooth mode can be activated by downloading the app on either Android or iPhone which offer manual controls to move the car.

